# CSCI 5801 - Software Engineering
## Project 1

Team Members -

    1. Evan Bagwell
    2. Tyler Grimm
    3. Andrew Guerra
    4. Hady Kotifani

### Purpose of this README:
This README file will be used to describe the Voting System that is contained in this repository. This document will be intended for those who are interested in running the Voting Sytems. This document will also instruct users on the things like file structure or the System,how the System is intented to work and the various parts of the system.

### The Voting System:
This Voting System is designed to determine election results for either Instant Runoff (IR) or Closed Party List (CPL) elections. This system will be designed to be fair in its election determinations. The benefits of the this Voting System is that it allows multiple election types to be processed through a single program and also removes manual processes by automating the counting of votes and determining the winners. The system requires little user input or interaction. All interaction will happen with a text based interface. The user can either provide an election data file name to the system via a command line argument or provide it via a prompt during runtime. The system will then process the election data as specified in the election data file and display the results of the election to the terminal. Additionally, the system will produce an audit file containing information about winners and the processing of ballots so that users of the system may review how the election unfolded.

### How to build and run the system: 
##### Makefile is used for running the System.
* make run                      # runs project in target folder without filename argument, election file should be in resources folder
* make run filename=FILEMAME    # runs project in target folder with FILENAME argument, election file should be in resources folder
* make build                    # builds project classes
* make javadocs                 # generates javadocs in documentation folder
* make remove-javadocs          # deletes javadocs in documentation folder
* make run-tests                # runs test suite
* make tests                	 # builds project test classes
* make clean	                 # deletes compiled build classes
##### To run the system without using the Makefile
java -cp location-of-build-package main.Main
java -cp locaion-of-build-package main.Main electionfile.csv

### File Structure: 
* #### Project1/ 
  * ##### lib. 
      > Contains the Java ARchive files.
  * ##### misc/ 
      > Contains all miscellaneous files for the system. 
  * ##### resources/ 
      > Contains election .csv files as well as audit files that were generated with manual running of system.  
  * ##### src/ 
      > Contains all of the source code for the Voting System. 
      > * CPL_Audit.java 
      > * CPL_Ballot.java
      > * CPL_Election.java
      > * Candidate.java
      > * Election.java
      > * ElectionAudit.java
      > * IR_Audit.java
      > * IR_Ballot.java
      > * IR_Election.java
      > * Main.java
      > * Party.java
      * ##### test/ 
          * ##### system 
              > Contains files for the systems tests. 
          * ##### unit 
              > Contains files for the unit tests. 
  * ##### testing/
      * ##### system/ 
          > Contains files needed to run the systems tests.
      * ##### unit/ 
          > Contains files needed to run the unit tests.
  * ##### documentation/ 
      > Contains all file generated by javadocs comments. 
  * ##### Makefile 
      > File used to help run the test and to use with javadocs. 
  * ##### README 
      > This file. 
  * ##### buglist 
      > Contains a list of known bugs within the system. 

### Overview of the source code 
##### CPL_Audit.java: 
  * this contains the methods and attributes that is needed to produce an audit file for a CPL election 

##### CPL_Ballot.java 
  * this file contains the methods and attributes for a ballot in a CPL election  

##### CPL_Election.java: 
  * this java file contains what is needed to run a CPL election 

##### Candidate.java  
  * used to store the information about candidates for an IR election 

##### Election.java: 
  * Contains the methods and attributes needed to run either and IR or CPL election 

##### ElectionAudit.java 
  * contains methods and attributes needed to produce an audit file.   

##### IR_Audit.java: 
  * this contains the methods and attributes that is needed to an audit file for a CPL election 

##### IR_Ballot.java  
  * this file contains the methods and attributes for a ballot in a CPL election 

##### IR_Election.java 
  * this java file contains what is needed to run a IR election   

##### Main.java: 
  * Main class. Contains the implementation for UI for the program.  

##### Party.java  
  * this file contains the information needed about parties in a CPL election. 


### System Overview 
  #### the system will do the following: 
   * Accept a file: users will input a file containing all information needed for the election, and the system will check for correct inputs 
   * Read the file: the system will read the file and store the information contained in the file
   * Determine Election Type: the system will determine the type of election based on the contents of the previously read file
   * Determine Candidates: the system will determine the candidates needed for an IR election or a CPL election
   * Determine Ballots: the system will determine the number of ballots in an election
   * Determine Seats: the system will determine the number of seats in an election
   * Run Election: the system will run an election for either IR or CPL type election
   * Run Popularity: the system will run a popularity election if there is no clear majority in an IR election 
   * Fair Coin Toss: the system will flip a coin to determine a winner if there is a tie
   * Display Results: the system will display a brief description of the election after a winner is determined
   * Generate Audit File: the system will generate an in-depth report about the election.
 #### Background Information: 
   * The system will run on a Linux operating system, specifically version 20.03 of Ubuntu, and is not expected to behave or run properly under other operating systems
   * The system will process CSV files of a specified format and is not expected to be able to process files in a different format

#### Assumptions: 
  * It is assumed that the system is run on up-to-date Linux systems. 
  * It is assumed that all ballots are preprocessed and that they will be viewed as a comma-separated value (.csv) file where each row is separated by a new line. 
  * It is assumed that all preprocessing of the file will be done before being placed in the directory. 
  * It is assumed that files containing information about IR and CPL elections will follow their respective heading conventions (See SRS Section 6). 
  * It is assumed that no more than one file will be given to the system. 
  * For a CPL election, it is assumed that all independent groups will only have a single member, and differing independent groups will have different names. 
  * For an IR election, it is assumed that all ballots will have at least 1 person ranked. 
  * For a CPL election, it is assumed that a candidate will be given only 1 ranking.  
  * It is assumed that there will be no write-ins for IR or CPL. 
  * It is assumed that there are no numbering mistakes in the file–voters will not make any mistakes on the ballot. That is, there are no errors in the ballot. 
  * It is assumed that all election files will follow their respective specified format (see SRS section 6.1 - 6.2). 
